Okay,
guys.
So now let's start having another case study and exploring another data set using pivot
tables.
So this is another data set that I got from stats Canada on it has the month and the
province or territory and the industry and the average weekly hours that people work in
that particular industry.
Okay,
so this is a data set that speaks about how many hours,
on average,
people work every week in different industries,
in different provinces and in different months.
So,
as you can see here,
the data set has this column here for the month.
So goes like January 2016 February 2016 Marsh 2016 and so on and so forth.
And that's all the way till 2000 and 90.
So this is the data set that we have sets start exploring that day,
is it?
First of all,
let's do some number formatting here.
So on the month column,
it's formatting.
Here is day,
month,
year.
We could change the formatting to make it easier to read,
So I'm just gonna highlight the whole call,
impress control in one on my keyboard and go to custom,
and instead of this formatting I'm actually going to go with Ah,
month.
Mm dash Y y.
So it reads January 16 February 16 and so on and so forth.
This makes it much easier to read here and now.
Ah,
you can see here.
I've got a column here that is called the average weekly hours is the average weekly hours
that people worked in that particular month.
Um,
so I'm actually gonna create another column here,
and I'm just gonna call it standard work hours,
which is basically a column that that will contain 40 in all the values here.
So,
as you know,
people work 40 hours per week.
That's the standard work week for for people,
usually.
So I'm just gonna create that Call him here because I'm actually gonna create E a
calculated column that is basically the division of the average weekly hours by the
standard work hours,
and it's gonna be a fraction,
and it's going to be at the work hours Index is gonna be on index.
That points to how many hours people work,
or it's gonna be useful in comparing the working hours for different people in different
industries.
So you will see how we're going to do that.
So I've got my table here.
Ready?
I've already created a table here on my data set,
so I'm just gonna insert a pivot table here.
So I'm gonna go to the insert tab on the ribbon here,
and then I'm gonna go toe pivot table,
and then I've already called my table here.
TBL data.
I'm just gonna insert a pivot table in and you worksheet no press.
Okay.
Here and now I've got my pivot table.
And now what I'm going to do is that I'm gonna put here the province or territory on the
roads section.
I'm gonna put the industry under it as well under the province and territory.
And I'm actually gonna put my average weekly hours here,
so I'm gonna put it here on the submission of Value section.
As you consider it's summing up all the hours and older months and the years,
right,
because we don't have a filter yet on the months or the years.
This is why you see these big numbers.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm actually gonna create here at my calculated column that I told
you about.
I'm gonna go here to field fields,
items and sets under pivot table,
analyze eso.
I'm gonna go here and create a calculated field.
Eso I'm gonna call it work hours index,
and this index is basically going to be my average weekly hours divided by this standard
work hours.
Okay?
And I'm just going to click OK here.
And I don't need the average weekly hours here anymore on the value section.
And so I'm actually gonna work with this index because it's gonna help me compare how many
hours people work relative to each other.
And I'm actually gonna change the formatting for that column here.
Just gonna give it less decimal places.
So I'm gonna go with three desperate places.
That's enough here,
and a Z can see her.
It's giving me a number here,
that is ah,
around one.
So it could be also a fraction could be more than one.
In some cases,
it people work excessive hours,
so you can see it gives me a fraction.
That shows me how many hours people work relative to each other.
So I can also sort that so Aiken sort that in descending order and and this helps me
basically know which industries in which provinces work the most hours and ah,
also,
I can do something else which could help me also read this status that easier and visualize
the working hours easier.
I can actually create a heat map.
So I'm just gonna press control shift down to highlight the whole column here.
I'm gonna go to conditional formatting,
and I'm gonna go to my color scales and I'm gonna choose this color scale here which would
give the lowest values here,
the lowest indices it would give them ah,
greenish color.
And then the other indices.
It would give them,
you know,
more of a reddish colors and then the ones in the middle,
it would give them a yellow color.
And now I have some sort of a spectrum here on how many hours people work compared to each
other.
So I can see here,
for example,
that people in Alberta working in machine shops turn products screw and not on bold
manufacturing.
So people working machine shops,
the work the most hours and I can Sierra's well that people who work in the offices of
other health practitioners thes work the least hours people working in schools as well
technical and trade schools.
These work the least hours and in the middle.
We've got all the other industries here.
You can see we've got a lot of industries year said this.
It makes me able to get an idea about how many hours people work in different industries
and you can see here.
I've got some sort of a scale year and as many managed to sort my values to make them,
ah,
lot easier to read.
So this is a good idea,
um,
to be able to explore and your data set and makes sense of your data and make it much
easier to visualize your data here by creating a heat map.
I could do something else,
which is that I could also add the month here to the column section,
and I might be interested in a general trend on which months people work the most on which
industries.
So I'll just have the month only consider when I added the month.
It also put the years and the quarters.
But I'll remove the quarters and remove the years,
and I might be just interested in a general trend over the years which industries people
work in the most Nickens eras.
Well,
there were some months here where we didn't have any data for them,
So give me a divided by zero.
But I can solve this problem easily by right clicking on my pivot table here and going to
my pivot table options and then for air values.
I'm just going to show nothing and is because here they are just gonna be blanks here
instead of the ugly,
divided by zero errors.
And this helps me here a determine which our which months people work the most on which
industries Years.
I'm going to some sort of a heat map here.
Ah,
for every province as well.
And I'll just collapse here,
all the province and you can see here that Ah,
for example,
in the Northwest Territories,
people work the most in September,
for example,
while,
in Ontario people work the least in October.
I believe this is the least value here,
so yeah,
it helps me get a heat map on which months people work the most in general and ah,
the grand total here helps tell me which province people work the most on overall.
But this this heat map is useful here to tell me you know which which province is people
work the most on and which months people work the most on and also I Kenbrell eket down in
each province.
So if I click here on this plus button,
it tells me in each province,
um,
through the seat map which months work people work the most on the least on in which
industries.
So,
for example,
here on the force tree on logging Ah,
in Ontario,
people work the least here in October.
You consider there's significant drop in their working hours in the average weekly working
hours in October.
But they work a lot in December and that's Ah ah,
that's that's a bit of ah,
we're thing,
because December is when it starts to get cold.
But there must be a reason for that.
Is that I don't know.
So you know this contributor,
You toe socks off some questions or do some research about that.
You can also see here that people in that in construction,
they work the most in June,
and that makes a lot of sense because here in Canada,
construction is done the most in summer.
This is when you know construction starts to get really active.
Construction workers work the most hours in summer,
but then things start to drop down,
you know,
in winter.
So as you can see her in December of starting from December and then January and February
is one,
actually,
and even Marsh Marsh is even the least ah,
month that the construction workers work on and sincere that these months are the months
with the least activity.
And I know some friends who work in the construction sector,
and they take actually the whole winter as as an off time.
They don't work in winter that you don't work in December,
January and February,
the take three months off,
and then they work really hard in the rest of the months.
So that makes ah lot of sentence.
So,
you know,
it helps me.
Helps you discover patterns in your data this way by creating a heat map.
Another way to visualize your data is using charts.
So I created another top year,
and I click created another pivot table here.
I'm just gonna call this pivot table has say,
PVT charts,
for example,
So this this is the pivot table where we're going to do a chart.
You can call it anything,
Of course.
And ah,
I'm just gonna go here to the insert tab,
and then I'm gonna go to my recommended charts,
and I actually want to draw a line chart.
So I'm gonna click okay here because I want to see the provinces against each other.
Um,
you know how many hours people work on those provinces,
but I actually want to put my months here on the horizontal axis on the X axis.
So I'm just going to right click here,
and I'm actually going to go to my select data here,
and I'm going to switch rows and columns here and I'm gonna click,
OK?
And you can see here.
I now got what I wanted,
but there are too many provinces here on my chart,
so it's better to filter my provinces.
So I'm actually going to create a slicer here to make filtering my problems it easy.
So I'm just going to right click here on province or territory and I'm just gonna add a
slicer,
and I am going to increase the number of columns on that.
Okay,
eso as to be able to get many promises.
So I think this this could be a good size now,
OK,
so I'm just gonna put it here and now I can filter for some off the provinces,
and it can also do it on the chart,
by the way,
so I can click here,
and I can,
you know,
compare provinces to each other.
So,
Aiken filter Ontario,
for example only.
And now I can see,
like,
an overall trend on when people work the most or the least in Ontario.
And I'm just gonna remove these grid lines here.
So as you can see her,
um,
I can see ah,
trend on how many work hours or what the pattern is for people working in Ontario.
I'm just gonna right enabled the HRT of work index pattern per month.
So this is a pattern here off people in Ontario.
You can see here the work rate or ah,
you know how many hours people work starts to drop here in September every year,
and it reaches the least in October.
And I think this might be because people start studying or going to university in Ontario
and all over the country,
actually in September and October.
So they're working hours start to drop because sometimes people would are working in the
summer on then studying starts in in September or October.
So this is when they're working hours drop again and you can see here the work hours they
reached their peak in June.
And this is in general across all the industries.
So this is not specific to any one industry.
And also filter that that chart or add another province to comparison.
You can compare Ontario and Quebec for examples,
or you can select it from the slicer.
Or you could select it here from the filter on the chart.
I compressed control on my keyboard president,
hold control in select Quebec as well,
so as to compare,
for example,
Quebec with Ontario.
And you can see here that there is a pattern in Quebec where actually the working hours
increase in October as opposed to a monetary award.
Working hours reach their lowest point in Ontario in October.
So this is a behavior all over the province that we would need to know why is that the case
?
This this could make you ask questions.
Why do people work more our or people's working hours to take it on uphill and reach?
There's there's Ah,
it's not.
It's not the highest point,
but it's one of the high points here on their pattern,
So you might ask that question So this is helpful if you want to compare provinces overall
.
And,
of course,
you can add a slicer for the industry as well.
If you want to slice by a certain industry,
there are many,
many industries.
So this way you know you can compare Ah,
work in different industries in different provinces.
So as you consider this industry here,
the cloth clothing,
accessories on other this this only has data for connected.
So there's no data for interior about me.
The healthcare should have data.
All in all the problems is so you can you're able to compare different provinces in terms
of the working hours across different industries.
This is very helpful.
If you're in a certain industry,
I care a lot about you.
Work like balance.
You want to know how many working hours people work in each province,
or where is the province that I can live in that has the best work life balance where it
would work the least hours,
You know,
these air answers that you can get using pivot tables.
Okay,
so this is a demonstration in a case study on how to use pivot tables to answer these
questions are hope.
Guys,
you found this video helpful.
We're gonna have some homework as well for this data set.
So thank you so much for watching this video and I'll see on the next one.